README.md, before:

# Grok CLI

A conversational AI CLI tool powered by Grok-3 with intelligent text editor capabilities and tool usage.

## Features

- **🤖 Conversational AI**: Natural language interface powered by Grok-3
- **📝 Smart File Operations**: AI automatically uses tools to view, create, and edit files
- **⚡ Bash Integration**: Execute shell commands through natural conversation
- **🔧 Automatic Tool Selection**: AI intelligently chooses the right tools for your requests
- **💬 Interactive UI**: Beautiful terminal interface built with Ink
- **🌍 Global Installation**: Install and use anywhere with `npm i -g grok-cli`

## Installation

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 16+ 
- Grok API key from X.AI

### Global Installation (Recommended)
```bash
npm install -g grok-cli
```

### Local Development
```bash
git clone <repository>
cd grok-cli
npm install
npm run build
npm link
```

## Setup

1. Get your Grok API key from [X.AI](https://x.ai)

2. Set up your API key (choose one method):

**Method 1: Environment Variable**
```bash
export GROK_API_KEY=your_api_key_here
```

**Method 2: .env File**
```bash
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env and add your API key
```

**Method 3: Command Line Flag**
```bash
grok --api-key your_api_key_here
```

## Usage

Start the conversational AI assistant:
```bash
grok
```

Or specify a working directory:
```bash
grok -d /path/to/project
```

## Example Conversations

Instead of typing commands, just tell Grok what you want to do:

```
💬 "Show me the contents of package.json"
💬 "Create a new file called hello.js with a simple console.log"
💬 "Find all TypeScript files in the src directory"
💬 "Replace 'oldFunction' with 'newFunction' in all JS files"
💬 "Run the tests and show me the results"
💬 "What's the current directory structure?"
```

## Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Development mode
npm run dev

# Build project
npm run build

# Run linter
npm run lint

# Type check
npm run typecheck
```

## Architecture

- **Agent**: Core command processing and execution logic
- **Tools**: Text editor and bash tool implementations
- **UI**: Ink-based terminal interface components
- **Types**: TypeScript definitions for the entire system

## License

MIT

Commit message:

add support for GROK.md custom instructions

README.md, after:

# Grok CLI

A conversational AI CLI tool powered by Grok-3 with intelligent text editor capabilities and tool usage.

## Features

- **🤖 Conversational AI**: Natural language interface powered by Grok-3
- **📝 Smart File Operations**: AI automatically uses tools to view, create, and edit files
- **⚡ Bash Integration**: Execute shell commands through natural conversation
- **🔧 Automatic Tool Selection**: AI intelligently chooses the right tools for your requests
- **💬 Interactive UI**: Beautiful terminal interface built with Ink
- **🌍 Global Installation**: Install and use anywhere with `npm i -g grok-cli`

## Installation

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 16+ 
- Grok API key from X.AI

### Global Installation (Recommended)
```bash
npm install -g grok-cli
```

### Local Development
```bash
git clone <repository>
cd grok-cli
npm install
npm run build
npm link
```

## Setup

1. Get your Grok API key from [X.AI](https://x.ai)

2. Set up your API key (choose one method):

**Method 1: Environment Variable**
```bash
export GROK_API_KEY=your_api_key_here
```

**Method 2: .env File**
```bash
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env and add your API key
```

**Method 3: Command Line Flag**
```bash
grok --api-key your_api_key_here
```

## Usage

Start the conversational AI assistant:
```bash
grok
```

Or specify a working directory:
```bash
grok -d /path/to/project
```

### Custom Instructions

You can provide custom instructions to tailor Grok's behavior to your project by creating a `.grok/GROK.md` file in your project directory:

```bash
mkdir .grok
```

Create `.grok/GROK.md` with your custom instructions:
```markdown
# Custom Instructions for Grok CLI

Always use TypeScript for any new code files.
When creating React components, use functional components with hooks.
Prefer const assertions and explicit typing over inference where it improves clarity.
Always add JSDoc comments for public functions and interfaces.
Follow the existing code style and patterns in this project.
```

Grok will automatically load and follow these instructions when working in your project directory. The custom instructions are added to Grok's system prompt and take priority over default behavior.

## Example Conversations

Instead of typing commands, just tell Grok what you want to do:

```
💬 "Show me the contents of package.json"
💬 "Create a new file called hello.js with a simple console.log"
💬 "Find all TypeScript files in the src directory"
💬 "Replace 'oldFunction' with 'newFunction' in all JS files"
💬 "Run the tests and show me the results"
💬 "What's the current directory structure?"
```

## Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Development mode
npm run dev

# Build project
npm run build

# Run linter
npm run lint

# Type check
npm run typecheck
```

## Architecture

- **Agent**: Core command processing and execution logic
- **Tools**: Text editor and bash tool implementations
- **UI**: Ink-based terminal interface components
- **Types**: TypeScript definitions for the entire system

## License

MIT
